# Wallet FAQ

## Can i run a node on one of my machines and the wallet on another using lightip?

Sure  
On the node machine, use "allowed" in config.txt to allow the wallet ip to connect  
allowed can be "any" or a list of ips.

## How can i use the light wallet?

(June 2018)

In your bismuth-folder is a file called config.txt. It happens, that it changes on new releases, but sometimes when we develop new code, some things need to be adjusted.
For the wallet, the main config-line is "light_ip". This is the line, where all ip-addresses are listed, your wallet tries to connect to.
It looks like this:
- *light_ip=127.0.0.1,bismuth.online:8150,bismuth.live:8150,bismuth.live,66.70.181.150,heatnodes.org*

127.0.0.1 is used, if you are running a node locally (you started node.exe or node.py).

The other addresses are for the "light" purpose, you don't need to run a node:  
If you have one, your wallet will first try to connect locally. If it can't, it will try the rest of the list and gathers all information it needs from one of the online node.  
 
In any case, no sensitive information is transmitted: your private key does not leave your computer.  
The wallet servers do not know them and **DO NOT NEED them in ANY CASE**.

The addresses with the Port 8150 are newly developed Wallet-Servers, they should be faster and have more capacities for light-wallets, but they are still in a light-testing phase.
When the address is not reachable, your wallet tries the next in the list.

However, sometimes a node or a wallet-server accepts the connection but has some problems (a normal node with high load for example or a wallet-server, where the attached node has problems),
your wallet is starting but stopping and showing a white window or it is starting but showing zero information (no balance, no actual block, just the info where you are connected to).
Best way is to restart the wallet and if it happens again and you are connected to the same node, delete it from the config-line "light_ip".

Actual Wallet Servers that are running (as mentioned still testing how many wallets they can handle and so on):
* wallet.bismuth.online:8150
* wallet1.bismuth.online:8150
* wallet.bismuthplatform.de:8150
* bismuth.live:8150

## How can i use bis-URL

The bis-URL was introduced to make it easy to for somebody to send you funds. The URL looks like this:
- *bis://pay/a269451155ce19a7b99cd7934eebf457fbac4731d1a3c41d620d98be/10.00000000//Xk~I`AZc?Td2e-cAZBT0Y-Av2Z*m}EAZ=xHb75y?/N~ISkia*+^KM*wnC^=69*

After *bis://* the URL consists of 5 parameters:
* command (only "pay" is supported atm)
* recipient
* amount
* operation
* openfield
* last part is a checksum, generated by the wallet

They are divided be a "*/*". So in the example above, the command is *pay*, followed by the address, where the funds should be send to. Next field is the *amount* of bis that is send (in our example: 10 bis). Following part is the *operation* field, which is empty in our example, that is why we see a *//*. The last part is *openfield* or *data*, which contains the message.
The wallet has some text information how to create or read a bis-URL. However, when you click on *read*, only the values are filled in the corresponding fields, nothing is sent when you did this. You can still enter something (for example message or amount).

