# Bismuth Hard Fork at Block 700000

On block 700000, the Bismuth network will change some rules. A hard fork is mandatory, and you'll have to update your nodes *before* this block or your node will fork.

## Will I lose my Bis?

No.  
If you only use the light wallet and don't run a node, there is no hurry.  
In any case, your keys are safe in your wallet.der file and it's all you need.  

## What is the current block?

Check the explorer at http://bismuth.online

## What's this fork all about?

This fork handles several things.
- First, it smoothens the small differences there was between some versions of the nodes, dealing with specific edge cases.
- Second, it will allow the general use of tokenv2 technology, meaning almost no overhead and faster tokens operations.
- Last but lot least, the HF will avoid some "hard blocks" situations where a single hard block can be too long (> 3 min, sometimes way more) to mine.  
It won't change the average block time, nor the mining diff in a significant way, nor the miner rewards.

> In a nutshell, it will make the net run smoother and faster, and avoid some partial node incompatibilities that lead to stuck nodes or tx in the past.

## I run a node, what should I do?

*DO THIS RIGHT NOW*

- Make sure you updated and run at least 4.2.5.1. : https://github.com/hclivess/Bismuth/releases/tag/4.2.5.1  
- stop the node, delete mempool.db (it will be recreated if needed)
- edit config.txt, check your config.txt, compare new settings from the releae config.txt file
- check you allow only recent protocol versions.  
  The matching config.txt line should read `version_allow=mainnet0016,mainnet0017,mainnet0018`
- make sure your protocol version is 017: it's the `version=` line.  
  *It must read `version=mainnet0017`*  
  This step is very important, since it will allow to block older (protocol version 16) peers once forked or if things go bad.
- Start your node again

## What to do If my node goes crazy after the HF?

First try:
- Stop your node
- only allow for version 17 nodes: edit config.txt, edit version_allow so the line reads `version_allow=mainnet0017,mainnet0018,mainnet0019`
- restart your node

If you end up on a bad fork again:
- still with the config above from first try, stop your node.
- delete static/ledger.db
- restart your node, it will bootstrap from the pre-fork file and catch up again from updated nodes only.
